---
  hide:
    -navigation
  title: Fourth Seminar in Seminar Series 2023-2024
  date: '2024-03-11'
---

# Fourth Seminar in 2023-2024 Seminar Series

We're excited to continue our virtual seminar series for the TC on Model-Based Optimization for Robotics.

We'll have a talk from Ludovic Righetti from New York University (NYU) at 9AM EST March 17th 2024 (Thursday). Please find the flyer with all the details at [this link](../assets/flyer_LudovicRighetti-Mar14.pdf).

**Speaker**: Ludovic Righetti (New York University (NYU))

**Title**: Learning complex behaviors with nonlinear MPC

**Abstract**: *Nonlinear model predictive control (MPC) is a reliable technology to generate a variety of robotic behaviors, from flying robots to humanoids. While MPC is a rigorous framework to generate, in principle, any kind of behavior from a single algorithm, major limitations remain. For example, current approaches do not allow easy inclusion of multi-modal sensing, especially visual and force feedback, and algorithms struggle to optimize in real-time multi-contact behaviors necessary for complex manipulation or locomotion. On the other hand, learning-based methodologies, which heavily rely on offline compute, do not seem to struggle with these issues. In this talk, I will present our recent work tackling those problems with a particular eye towards unifying learning and numerical optimal control. First, I will argue for the benefits of “textbook” numerical optimization methods to develop reliable solvers. Then I will discuss how to include multi-modal sensing and accelerate the computation of multi-contact behaviors through a mixture of offline compute (learning) and online optimization (MPC). I will then show how this can lead to improved performance for movement generation in the context of locomotion and manipulation and discuss on-going challenges.*

**Date**: Thursday, March 14th 2024

**Time**: 09:00-10:00 AM EST (GMT -05:00)

**Link**: [https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/91247893326?pwd=L2JWU21aQzc4cU1ZQklEb0QrWGQvdz09](https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/91247893326?pwd=L2JWU21aQzc4cU1ZQklEb0QrWGQvdz09)


More details on upcoming seminars (and video links for past ones) can be found [here](../seminars.md).
