---
  hide:
    -navigation
  title: TC Virtual Poster Session and Networking Event 2026
  date: '2026-06-23'
---

## Overview

The Technical Committee on Optimization for Robotics will hold the annual Summer virtual poster session and networking event on **Tuesday, July 28th, 2026 (9:00-11:30 AM EDT, 3:00-5:30 PM CEST, 10:00 PM - 12:30 AM JST)**. There will also be a Best Poster Award associated with the event, consisting of USD $250 that can be used within 2026 (until December 31st) for expenses eligible to be reimbursed by IEEE for the purpose of attending an IEEE-RAS conference (e.g. travel, conference fees, meals). The award will be selected at the end of the event.

## Key dates:

**Poster Registration Deadline:** July 20th, ([Submission link](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd4pZWpeSz3cMwnLQ3lgnKhLTs-G7_xtcHu3WEKthADy9Umgg/viewform))

**Decision notification:** July 22nd

**Poster Upload:** July 24th (Link will be sent to accepted authors)

## Event Details

**Date/Time:** Tuesday, July 28th, 2026 (9:00-11:30 AM EDT, 3:00-5:30 PM CEST, 10:00 PM - 12:30 AM JST)

**Schedule (all times are in EDT)** - *there is an overlap of 30 minutes between the two poster sessions*:

The event will be held virtually on [Spatial.Chat](https://spatial.chat), so it's open to participants worldwide. No registration needed to attend. The join link will be emailed a few days beforehand.

On the day before the event, this page will be updated to include the poster overview.

| Time | Schedule Item | Link |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 9:00 - 9:05 AM | Welcome |  |
| 9:05 - 10:30 AM | Poster Session 1 (room 1 and 2) | Coming soon |
| 10:00 - 11:25 AM | Poster Session 2 (room 3 and 4) | Coming soon |
| 11:25 - 11:30 AM | Closing remarks | |

## Session 1 Posters

We will update this site as the schedule is finalized, stay tuned!

## Session 2 Posters

We will update this site as the schedule is finalized, stay tuned!
